.TH CSAPI 1 "7 July 2026"
.\"
.\" (C) Copyright 2008-2026 Diomidis Spinellis
.\" (C) Copyright 2026 Ujjwal Aggarwal
.\"
.\" This file is part of CScout.
.\"
.\" CScout is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" CScout is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with CScout.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.SH NAME
csapi \- REST API server for querying a CScout SQLite database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B csapi
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-p
.IR port ]
.I db
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B csapi
starts a lightweight REST API server to query a CScout SQLite database.
The database can be produced by running
.IR cscout (1)
with the
.B \-s sqlite
option, or with
.IR csmerge (1).
.PP
The server listens on
.B localhost
(127.0.0.1) only and is intended for use by local tools such as the CScout
VS Code extension, CI scripts, and other programs that consume CScout
whole-program C analysis data.
.PP
Upon startup, the database is verified. Database indexes are dynamically
created on demand when query requests are processed, ensuring high-performance lookups.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a brief usage message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIport\fR
The port to listen on.
Defaults to 8081.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I db
Path to the SQLite database file containing the CScout analysis dataset.
.SH ENDPOINTS
The HTTP GET endpoints exposed by the server (such as
.B /status\fR,
.B /quit\fR,
.B /identifiers\fR,
.B /identifier\fR,
.B /files\fR,
.B /functions\fR,
and
.B /refactor/preview\fR)
are documented in detail using the OpenAPI standard.
For a complete reference of all endpoints, parameters, and response schemas, see the OpenAPI specification file:
.I doc/csapi.yaml
or open the interactive documentation viewer:
.I doc/csapi.html
in your web browser.
.SH EXAMPLE
Generate a CScout database from a project and start the API server:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
cscout \-s sqlite project.cs | sqlite3 project.db
csapi project.db \-p 8080
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Query unused identifiers:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
curl http://localhost:8080/identifiers?unused=true
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Preview renaming an identifier:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
curl "http://localhost:8080/refactor/preview?eid=12345&newname=new_name"
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIcscout\fP(1),
\fIcsmake\fP(1),
\fIcscoco\fP(1),
\fIcssplit\fP(1),
\fIcsmerge\fP(1)
.SH AUTHOR
(C) Copyright 2026 Diomidis Spinellis and Ujjwal Aggarwal.
