.TH CSCC 1 "13 April 2019"
.\"
.\" (C) Copyright 2016-2019 Diomidis Spinellis
.\"
.\" This file is part of CScout.
.\"
.\" CScout is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" CScout is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with CScout.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.SH NAME
cscc \- CScout C compiler front end
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcscc\fP
[\fIgcc(1) options\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcscc\fP is a wrapper around \fIgcc\fP.
commands.
When invoked instead of \fIgcc\fP,
it will compile the specified file(s) in the same way as \fIgcc\fP
would do.
As a side-effect it will monitor the invocation of
\fIgcc(1)\fP
and record its environment and arguments.
With those data it will generate a \fICScout\fP project specification
that can be used to process the file(s) that were compiled.
The project specification is saved into a file named \fImake.cs\fP.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following commands are often the only ones required to process
a few C files.
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
cscc example.c
cscout make.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
If you want to use \fIcscc\fP with another C compiler, prepend
\fBCC=\fIcompiler-name\fR to the \fIcscc\fP invocation,
as shown in the following example.
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
CC=x86_64-w64-gcc cscc
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cscout(1),
csmake(1)
.SH AUTHOR
(C) Copyright 2006-2019 Diomidis Spinellis.
