.TH CSCOCO 1 "29 June 2026"
.\"
.\" (C) Copyright 2008-2026 Diomidis Spinellis
.\" (C) Copyright 2026 Ujjwal Aggarwal
.\"
.\" This file is part of CScout.
.\"
.\" CScout is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" CScout is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with CScout.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.SH NAME
cscoco \- generate CScout workspace from a compilation database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cscoco
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR project_name ]
.RI [ compile_commands.json ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cscoco
reads a compilation database in the
.I compile_commands.json
format and translates each translation unit into a
.I CScout
workspace file (.cs).
The generated workspace is written to standard output.
Each C translation unit is mapped to a block containing preprocessor settings
(defines and include paths) and processing directives.
Only C source files (.c) are processed; C++ files are skipped.
.PP
The resulting workspace file can be passed to
.IR cscout (1)
for static analysis.
.PP
For the location of the workaround headers, see
.IR csmake (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a brief usage message and exit.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-name " " \fIproject_name\fR
An optional project name to use in the \fB#pragma project\fP directive.
If not specified, the name of the directory above the build directory is used,
or "project" if reading from standard input.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I compile_commands.json
The compilation database to read, generated by tools such as CMake, Bear, Meson, Bazel's extractor, or Clang's \-MJ compiler option.
If not specified, or if specified as \fC-\fR, \fBcscoco\fP reads from standard input.
.SH EXAMPLE
To generate a CScout workspace file from a CMake build:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
cmake -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=ON -B build .
cscoco build/compile_commands.json > project.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Alternatively, from a Meson build:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
meson setup build
cscoco build/compile_commands.json > project.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
For Makefile-based projects without native compilation database support, the database can be generated using Bear:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
bear -- make
cscoco compile_commands.json > project.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Alternatively, Clang's \-MJ compiler option can be used to output compilation database fragments, which are then concatenated into a valid JSON array:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
clang -MJ main.o.json -c main.c
(echo "["; cat main.o.json | sed '$s/,$//'; echo "]") > compile_commands.json
cscoco compile_commands.json > project.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
This will create a \fCproject.cs\fP file, which can then be processed by CScout:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
cscout project.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIcscout\fP(1),
\fIcsmake\fP(1),
\fIcssplit\fP(1)
.PP
Clang JSON Compilation Database Format:
https://clang.llvm.org/docs/JSONCompilationDatabase.html
.SH AUTHOR
(C) Copyright 2026 Diomidis Spinellis and Ujjwal Aggarwal.
