.TH CSCUT 1 "21 December 2024"
.\"
.\" (C) Copyright 2024 Diomidis Spinellis
.\"
.\" This file is part of CScout.
.\"
.\" CScout is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" CScout is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with CScout.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.SH NAME
cscut \- Extract portions of a CScout processing script
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcscut\fP
[\fB-b\fP]
[\fB-e\fP]
[\fB-F\fP \fIfile-list\fP | \fB-f\fP \fIfile\fP | \fB-p\fP \fIproject\fP]
\fIcscout-file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIcscut\fP command-line tool extracts specific portions of a
\fICScout\fP processing script.
It provides a flexible way to select parts of the \fICScout\fP processing
script based on files or projects.
.PP
The following options are available:
.TP
\fB-b\fP
Output from the file's beginning until the specified point.
.TP
\fB-e\fP
Output from the specified point to the end of the file.
.TP
\fB-F \fIfile-list\fP
Output a script to process only the files specified in \fIfile-list\fP,
where \fIfile-list\fP is a file containing a list of filenames.
.TP
\fB-f \fIfile\fP
Output a script to process only the specified \fIfile\fP.
.TP
\fB-p \fIproject\fP
Output a script to process only the specified \fIproject\fP.
.PP
The last argument, \fIcscout-file\fP, specifies the \fICScout\fP
processing script to be processed.
.SH EXAMPLE
Below are some typical use cases for \fIcscut\fP.
.PP
Extract a script to process the file \fCx86.cs\fP:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
cscut -f /home/dds/src/linux/arch/x86/kvm/x86.c make.cs >x86.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Extract a script to process the files listed in \fIfile-list.txt\fP:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
cscut -F file-list.txt make.cs >files.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Extract a script to process only the project \fC.tmp_vmlinux3\fP:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
cscut -p /home/dds/src/linux/.tmp_vmlinux3 >linux.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Extract a script to process from the file \fCexport.c\fP and onward:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
cscut -f /home/dds/src/linux/fs/ocfs2/export.c linux.cs >ocfs2-export.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cscout(1),
cssplit(1),
csmake(1)
.SH AUTHOR
(C) Copyright 2024 Diomidis Spinellis.
