.TH CSRECONST 1 "10 December 2024"
.\"
.\" (C) Copyright 2024 Diomidis Spinellis
.\"
.\" This file is part of CScout.
.\"
.\" CScout is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" CScout is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with CScout.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.SH NAME
csreconst \- Test the reconstitution of files from a CScout database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcsreconst\fP -t [\fB-ckqs\fP] \fIdatabase.db\fP
.br
\fBcsreconst\fP -f \fIfile\fP [\fB-o\fP] [\fB-b\fP \fIline\fP] [\fB-e\fP \fIline\fP] ... \fIdatabase.db\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIcsreconst\fP(1) is a utility for testing the reconstitution of files
stored in a \fICScout\fP(1) database or reconstituting specific files.
.PP
The program provides two modes of operation:
.TP
\fB-t\fP
Test the reconstitution of all files in the specified SQLite \fIdatabase.db\fP.
Additional options can be specified to refine the behavior of the testing:
.TP
\fB-c\fP
Count the number of correct and incorrect files.
.TP
\fB-k\fP
Keep comparing after finding a difference.
.TP
\fB-q\fP
Run a quick diff without listing the full differences.
.TP
\fB-s\fP
Provide a summary of each file's reconstitution result.
.PP
\fB-f\fP
Reconstitute a specified \fIfile\fP stored in SQLite \fIdatabase.db\fP.
Additional options allow fine-grained control of the reconstitution:
.TP
\fB-b \fIline\fP
Reconstitute starting from the specified beginning line number.
.TP
\fB-e \fIline\fP
Reconstitute up to the specified ending line number.
.TP
\fB-o\fP
Prefix each reconstituted part with its file offset value.
.SH EXAMPLES
Test all files in a \fICScout\fP database and provide a summary:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
csreconst -tckqs result.db
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Reconstitute the file \fCmain.c\fP from a \fICScout\fP database:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
csreconst -f main.c result.db
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Reconstitute file \fCmain.c\fP from line 10 to line 50,
listing the offset of each part:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
csreconst -f main.c -b 10 -e 50 -o result.db
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.SH EXIT STATUS
The exit code indicates the result of the comparison operation:
.TP
0
All files compare equal (no differences found).
.TP
1
Differences were found between the reconstituted and original files.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIcscout\fP(1),
\fIcsmake\fP(1)

.SH AUTHOR
(C) Copyright 2024 Diomidis Spinellis.
