.TH CSSPLIT 1 "25 October 2025"
.\"
.\" (C) Copyright 2025 Diomidis Spinellis
.\"
.\" This file is part of CScout.
.\"
.\" CScout is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" CScout is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with CScout.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.SH NAME
cssplit \- Split a CScout processing script into smaller scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cssplit
.RB [ \-h ]
.B \-s
.I N
.I file
.RI [ file\ ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIcssplit\fP command-line program splits a \fICScout\fP
processing script into \fIN\fP smaller scripts for parallel
or distributed processing.
Each output script is named using a zero-padded sequence,
starting with \fIfile-0000.cs\fP.
.PP
The input is read from the specified file(s),
and the output files are written into the current working directory.
.PP
This tool is useful for distributing the workload of a large \fICScout\fP
analysis across multiple scripts for efficiency or manageability.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-shards " " N
Specifies the number of output scripts to generate.
The input processing script is divided into \fIN\fP approximately equal parts.
Each output script contains the appropriate subset of the input commands to
ensure no loss of information during the split.
Compilation units from multiple inter-dependent projects
(e.g. different configurations of the same executable)
are distributed to the scripts so as to maximize locality of reference.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display a brief usage message and exit.
.SH EXAMPLE
To split an input processing script into 4 smaller scripts:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
cssplit -s 4  make.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
This will create the following files in the current directory:
.PP
.DS
.ft C
.nf
file-0000.cs
file-0001.cs
file-0002.cs
file-0003.cs
.ft P
.fi
.DE
.PP
Each file contains a portion of the original processing script.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cscout(1),
cscut(1),
csmake(1)
.SH AUTHOR
(C) Copyright 2024-2025 Diomidis Spinellis.
