# Operations

The operations *CScout* provides group together functions
that globally affect its operation.
The following sections describe all operations appart from the global
options.

## Identifier Replacements

This operation allows you to review the identifier replacements
you have specified in identifier pages,
and modify or selectively deactivate some of them.
This page, together with the "save and continue" operation and
the file path substitution option provide
you a way to test and revoke source code changes, while operating CScout.

The following is an example of the identifier replacements page.
You see all identifiers for which replacements have been specified.
All specified replacements are originally active.
If a particular replacement appears to be causing problems
you can deactivate it from this page.
In addition, you can change the replaced name of any of the
replaced identifiers.
Finally, clicking on an identifier name will lead you to the
corresponding identifier page.

[setfile](simul.html)

[netsettime](simul.html)

| Identifier | Replacement | Active |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

[Main page](simul.html)
 - Web: [Home](simul.html)
[Manual](simul.html)
  

---
CScout 2.0 - 2004/07/31 12:37:12

| Identifier | Replacement | Active |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

## Select Active Project

When using a workspace with multiple projects, you can restrict the 
results of all identifier and file queries (read-made and those
you explicitly specify) to refer to a particular project or to all projects.
The metric results displayed are not affected.
When a project is delected, all pages end with a remark indicating the fact.
The following shows our example's project selection page.

[All projects](simul.html)
-  [cp](simul.html)
-  [echo](simul.html)
-  [date](simul.html)

 Project cp is currently selected

[Main page](simul.html)
  

---
CScout 1.6 - 2003/06/04 15:14:51

```
Select Active Project
```

## Save Changes and Continue

Through this option you can save changes you have made to the program's
identifiers, and continue CScout's operation.
CScout bases its source code display facilities on the source code it
has analyzed.
Therefore, this operation can only be executed if a file substitution
regular expression has been specified as an option.

## Exit - Saving Changes

Once you have changed the name of some identifiers by substituting it
with another name,
you should exit *CScout* through this option to commit the changes
you made to the respective file source code.

## Exit - Ignore Changes

You can also exit *CScout* without committing any changes.
As this option will trigger millions of object desctructors in large
workspaces, it may be faster to just terminate *CScout*
from its command-line instance by pressing ^C.
