# Regular Expression Syntax

*CScout* allows you to specify regular expressions for specifying
identifier or file names you are looking for.
The following description of the regular expressions
*CScout* accepts
is adapted from the FreeBSD re_format(7) manual page.

Regular expressions (``REs''), as defined in IEEE Std 1003.2
(``POSIX.2''), come in two forms: modern REs (roughly those of egrep(1);
1003.2 calls these ``extended'' REs) and obsolete REs (roughly those of
ed(1); 1003.2 ``basic'' REs).  
*CScout* has adopted the use of modern (extended) REs.

A (modern) RE is one= or more non-empty= *branches*, separated by `|'.  It
matches anything that matches one of the branches.

A branch is one= or more *pieces*, concatenated.  It matches a match for
the first, followed by a match for the second, etc.

A piece is an *atom* possibly followed by a single= `*', `+', `?', or
*bound*.  An atom followed by `*' matches a sequence of 0 or more matches
of the atom.  An atom followed by `+' matches a sequence of 1 or more
matches of the atom.  An atom followed by `?' matches a sequence of 0 or
1 matches of the atom.

A *bound* is `{' followed by an unsigned decimal integer, possibly followed
by `,' possibly followed by another unsigned decimal integer, always fol-
lowed by `}'.  The integers must lie between 0 and RE_DUP_MAX (255=)
inclusive, and if there are two of them, the first may not exceed the
second.  An atom followed by a bound containing one integer *i* and no
comma matches a sequence of exactly *i* matches of the atom.  An atom fol-
lowed by a bound containing one integer *i* and a comma matches a sequence
of *i* or more matches of the atom.  An atom followed by a bound containing
two integers *i* and *j* matches a sequence of *i* through *j* (inclusive)
matches of the atom.

An atom is a regular expression enclosed in `()' (matching a match for
the regular expression), an empty set of `()' (matching the null
string)=, a *bracket expression* (see below), `.' (matching any single
character), `^' (matching the null string at the beginning of a line),
`$' (matching the null string at the end of a line), a `\' followed by
one of the characters `^.[$()|*+?{\' (matching that character taken as an
ordinary character), a `\' followed by any other character= (matching
that character taken as an ordinary character, as if the `\' had not been
present=), or a single character with no other significance (matching
that character).  A `{' followed by a character other than a digit is an
ordinary character, not the beginning of a bound=.  It is illegal to end
an RE with `\'.

A *bracket expression* is a list of characters enclosed in `[]'.  It nor-
mally matches any single character from the list (but see below).  If the
list begins with `^', it matches any single character (but see below) *not*
from the rest of the list.  If two characters in the list are separated
by `-', this is shorthand for the full *range* of characters between those
two (inclusive) in the collating sequence, e.g. `[0-9]' in ASCII matches
any decimal digit.  It is illegal= for two ranges to share an endpoint,
e.g. `a-c-e'.  Ranges are very collating-sequence-dependent, and portable
programs should avoid relying on them.

To include a literal `]' in the list, make it the first character (fol-
lowing a possible `^').  To include a literal `-', make it the first or
last character, or the second endpoint of a range.  To use a literal `-'
as the first endpoint of a range, enclose it in `[.' and `.]' to make it
a collating element (see below).  With the exception of these and some
combinations using `[' (see next paragraphs), all other special charac-
ters, including `\', lose their special significance within a bracket
expression.

Within a bracket expression, a collating element (a character, a multi-
character sequence that collates as if it were a single character, or a
collating-sequence name for either) enclosed in `[.' and `.]' stands for
the sequence of characters of that collating element.  The sequence is a
single element of the bracket expression's list.  A bracket expression
containing a multi-character collating element can thus match more than
one character, e.g. if the collating sequence includes a `ch' collating
element, then the RE `[[.ch.]]*c' matches the first five characters of
`chchcc'.

Within a bracket expression, a collating element enclosed in `[=' and
`=]' is an equivalence class, standing for the sequences of characters of
all collating elements equivalent to that one, including itself.  (If
there are no other equivalent collating elements, the treatment is as if
the enclosing delimiters were `[.' and `.]'.)  For example, if `x' and
`y' are the members of an equivalence class, then `[[=x=]]', `[[=y=]]',
and `[xy]' are all synonymous.  An equivalence class may not= be an end-
point of a range.

Within a bracket expression, the name of a *character class* enclosed in
`[:' and `:]' stands for the list of all characters belonging to that
class.  Standard character class names are:

```
alnum    digit    punct
   alpha    graph    space
   blank    lower    upper
   cntrl    print    xdigit
```

These stand for the character classes defined in ctype(3).  A locale may
provide others.  A character class may not be used as an endpoint of a
range.

There are two special cases= of bracket expressions: the bracket expres-
sions `[[:<:]]' and `[[:>:]]' match the null string at the beginning and
end of a word respectively.  A word is defined as a sequence of word
characters which is neither preceded nor followed by word characters.  A
word character is an *alnum* character (as defined by ctype(3)) or an
underscore.  This is an extension, compatible with but not specified by
IEEE Std 1003.2 (``POSIX.2''), and should be used with caution in soft-
ware intended to be portable to other systems.

In the event that an RE could match more than one substring of a given
string, the RE matches the one starting earliest in the string.  If the
RE could match more than one substring starting at that point, it matches
the longest.  Subexpressions also match the longest possible substrings,
subject to the constraint that the whole match be as long as possible,
with subexpressions starting earlier in the RE taking priority over ones
starting later.  Note that higher-level subexpressions thus take priority
over their lower-level component subexpressions.

Match lengths are measured in characters, not collating elements.  A null
string is considered longer than no match at all.  For example, `bb*'
matches the three middle characters of `abbbc',
`(wee|week)(knights|nights)' matches all ten characters of `weeknights',
when `(.*).*' is matched against `abc' the parenthesized subexpression
matches all three characters, and when `(a*)*' is matched against `bc'
both the whole RE and the parenthesized subexpression match the null
string.

If case-independent matching is specified, the effect is much as if all
case distinctions had vanished from the alphabet.  When an alphabetic
that exists in multiple cases appears as an ordinary character outside a
bracket expression, it is effectively transformed into a bracket expres-
sion containing both cases, e.g. `x' becomes `[xX]'.  When it appears
inside a bracket expression, all case counterparts of it are added to the
bracket expression, so that (e.g.)  `[x]' becomes `[xX]' and `[^x]'
becomes `[^xX]'.
